So we need to return
the array from this function.
So the very first thing we need
to do is declare an array.
>> Yes, okay, exactly.
So we need an array of like
the multiple choice options.
Like n multiple choice option.
So 3 or 5 or what have you.
Yeah.
>> onst.
>> Choices?
>> Choices, yeah, sounds good.
>> Sure.
>> And
then it's equals just two square brackets.
>> So make it empty for now.
And then ultimately what we're
gonna do is return that array.
But first we need to put stuff in it,
okay,
[LAUGH]
>> Now I got it, okay.
>> Okay, cool.
>> So now we want to do a while loop.
And it's while and
then in the parentheses,
choices.length is less than n.
>> n, exactly.
Let's say n is 3, we are going to do
something until we have enough things
in that array that the length of the array
is 3, meaning it's not less than 3.
So similarly to how we added
our five random numbers before.
Cool.
>> And then the curly brackets.
Well, we could do it exactly
the same way as before, but
how does the correct
answer come into that?
>> Great question.
How do we make sure that the correct
answer is in that array?
>> Can we push it in?
>> We could push it.
Do we wanna push the correct
answer inside of this while loop?
>> No.
>> We only wanna push
the correct answer one time.
We don't want three buttons that
all say the correct answer,
that would also not be
a very exciting quiz.
So we could even do that before.
So could you walk me
through that JSON example?
>> Sure.
So whatever our variable is,
>> Choices?
>> Choices, yeap
Dot push.
>> Yeap.
>> Correct answer.
The syntax always escapes me.
>> Yeah, choices dot push, correct answer.
So this will now make sure that there
is at least one thing in our array, and
it is the correct answer.
Which is great.
Okay, excellent.
Okay, so
now we need to put in some red herrings,
we need to put in some wrong answers
to make the game interesting.
I mean, interesting is a strong word but,
[LAUGH]
>> Quick question, by doing this,
is the correct answer always gonna
be the first one in the array?
>> So good question.
As written,
if let's say we add other stuff here,
which we'll figure out in a second.
In this case when I returned choices,
The first element in
choices will be the first
thing that we pushed into it.
Which is correct answer.
So that would make it a little,
I don't know, a little obvious.
If the first button is always
the one that has the right answer,
then it'd be like, a test in
school where you know that all of
the above is always the correct answer,
right?
So what can we do to spice things up?
Well, if we scroll up a little bit,
we'll see that we have a utility
function up here called shuffleArray.
And here's a fun exercise as homework.
You can delete this function and
try to rewrite it.
How could we shuffle all
of the items in an array?
So in place, so the array is mutated,
and the order is randomized.
And this is one solution we could use
to do that, there are others as well.
So I'll leave that just because this is
sort of where we wanna learn some other
constructs in JavaScript.
We'll leave that for
a optional exercise for reader.
But suffice it to say, in our program
here we already have a utility
function called shuffleArray that
we could use to shake things up.
So maybe actually now before
we even add other stuff,
we know what we wanna do here before we
return the array, is we wanna shuffle it.
So how can I apply this shuffling
function to the array that I'm
outputting from my get
multiple choices function?
>> You add the shuffleArray as
part of the return statement.
>> Okay,
we could do it in the return statement.
So this would be like,
I could return shuffleArray and
pass in the array because that's
the structure of our shuffleArray.
That's how we parametrize shuffleArray
that takes in the array as in argument.
So we could first call the function on it,
which is going to change choices,
it's gonna mutate it, and
then return that mutated version.
Great.
Okay, but right now we're shuffling
an array of length one, so
not too much is changing.
So let's add the other stuff.
Okay, great job.
So how can we go through and
add a randomly selected element
from our possible choices?
>> Choices dot push?
Open parenthesis get random element.
>> Get random element.
>> Open parenthesis breeds.
>> And
then if we look at random element and
IDE is helping us out a little bit here,
but if we don't have that,
we can scroll up and
see what does random element look for.
It takes in the array again, and so
we can pass in our possible choices
array is what you said, right?
>> Breeds.
>> Sorry, breeds, yes.
Okay, so if we pass in breeds here,
in this case,
in this script where we're calling
this get multiple choices function and
we're passing in breeds as the argument,
these would be equivalent.
But what happens if I wanna reuse this?
Get multiple choices function for
a new game that I wanna build that doesn't
involve dogs or breeds, then this would
always return me choices of dog breeds
even if I wanted JavaScript value quiz.
Which value is this thing?
Sorry which type is this value?
So in this case we don't really wanna hard
code which means kind of bake it in so
that we're always using that
same value that breeds constant,
which is in caps because it's
a value we don't expect to change.
Since we're passing in
the breeds away anyway,
we're passing it in as the third
argument to this function,
What inner scope variable, essentially,
is this gonna get within
our function body?
What is JavaScript gonna name that
value within our function body here?
>> Possible choices.
>> Possible choices, yeah.
In this case, they're equivalent.
But if we ever wanted to reuse this
function, and often when we're writing
little utility functions like this,
we wanna keep them flexible.
Like for example the fact that
maybe we wanna change this so
that we have five choices.
It's a little bit harder, or
maybe we wanna lower it to just two,
make it a little easier.
We can change some of those options later.
So in this case,
let's use the name of the parameter.
Great.
Okay.
Can anybody see any possibilities
of something that might go wrong here?
I'm seeing some nodding.
What might happen in
the way this is written?
>> We're gonna get too many options.
I think we don't we have to have n-1
in our Y loop because we already put in
one value into that array.
So we're gonna put in 3, so
we come up with four choices essentially.
>> Okay, so one thing is we wanna make
sure we're getting the right number of
choices.
So the question is, Are we
gonna ignore this first value
that we put into the array and
add three random traces and
now have four total?
So that is something
we should think about.
So is that going to happen here?
Let's think through it.
When I declare choices what's its length?
0.
When this line runs, what does
the new length of choices become?
1.
So by the time I get to this condition,
choices length is already 1.
So if n is 3,
how many times is this line gonna run?
>> Twice.
>> Two, exactly.
So in this case because we pushed,
what would be different is if we had
moved this down here for
example, then we're in trouble.
Because now we're gonna
run that choices push,
get random element line three times,
and then push a fourth thing.
So great to be looking out for
this kind of stuff.
But in this case since we had
put it before the while loop,
we're probably okay on that front.
Okay, awesome, awesome point.
Any other concerns anybody has?
Yeah.
>> Well, you've got a possibility that one
of those random elements might be the same
as the correct answer.
>> Yes.
So math dot random when we call it,
We might have to call it
a bunch of times in order for
anything to be similar, but
there's no guarantee that it's not
gonna return two values that are really
at least close if not the same.
So we have a 0.85 and a 0.89.
What we're doing in our granum element
function probably matters here.
So let's take a look at it.
What we're doing is we're
calling math dot random.
And since that's always a number between 0
and 1, we're multiplying it by the array
length to kinda scale up the random values
that we'll get to the length of the array.
And then because we don't have
decimal integer in our arrays,
we're doing another operation
called math thought floor.
Which what this does is
it takes the integer,
that's the lower end of whatever
decimal you're giving it.
So let's take a look,
this is just some math we're doing.
If I have three things in my array,
math.random times
3 now is gonna be some
number between 0 and 3.
And I'm gonna take the floor
of that number which means
essentially the integer
before the decimal point.
Cuz I don't care about the decimals
cuz these are arrays and
we don't have array at index 0.11111.
We only have array at index 0, the item
at index 0 and the item at index one.
We only deal with integers.
So when I do math dot floor
of math dot random times 3,
I always get an integer value
somewhere between 0 and
2, because floor takes the lower end.
There's also a ceiling operation
that takes the higher integer.
So what this means is
that because like for
example here my math.random
returned times 3,
returned different numbers, but
there were still not quite 1.
They were still 0 point something.
The floor of those is both gonna be 0.
So that means we might get the same
index here multiple times when
we call this function multiple times.
Meaning we'd get the same element.
So we wanna make sure that we don't
have two of the same choice cuz again,
that would probably be
a bug in our program.
That wouldn't be what we
want the page to look like.
So what can we do about it?
What can we do about it?
>> Can you do a four for every answer
that gets returned by the random
element that does not exist as the correct
answer to just keep doing it and so on?
>> Okay, so we could say, so
I heard a few things in there,
we wanna keep doing this until we get
something that isn't in our array.
Now the question is, do we need a 4?
Well, we're already looping,
we've already got a loop going on,
it's the while loop, right?
So maybe what we need here is
we need to ask JavaScript, hey,
is this thing already in our array?
>> Can we do add, add and
say whatever value that's being
returned by that get random element
is not equal to correct answer.
>> While choices dot length
was less than add, right?
The both have to be true.
Whatever the value that's being
returned is not the correct answer,
keep doing this.
>> Okay, I see where you're going,
you're saying we could add
more to our conditional here.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, our condition here, yeah.
Well, the thing is that when
we're evaluating this condition,
we're not in the while loop yet.
So we haven't gotten anything
from the choices yet.
We don't have our random element yet.
But I see where you're going and
that would be something to investigate.
But right now,
when we're inside of the while loop,
what we can do,
is we can look at this random element.
And we can decide whether we
actually do want it in our array,
want to push it into our array,
or whether we don't want to push
it in our array, for
example because it's already in there.
So how could we test whether or
not this random element returned by
them get random element is
already in our choices array?
Does anybody remember a Spell includes?
So we have a array includes,
which can tell us whether or
not a certain value is
already in an array.
So what I could do here is,
let's say capture my get
random element value
as a possibility let's say,
possibility, or
random element, or
whatever you wanna call it.
Whatever it is that you wanna call it.
You could call it candidate,
for example, choice candidate.
Whatever we wanna name it.
We can capture it as a variable.
And then how can we test
to find out whether or
not each candidate is in
array using includes?
So the name of the array
that we wanna test it in is,
The array we care about your choices,
this is what we're building.
We wanna make sure we wanna see does
choices already have this candidate in it?
>> So we've got if don't mean.
>> So how we would test here is we
could do choices includes candidate,
and that's gonna return or
that's gonna give us a Boolean value.
True or false?
So we can make that, you said?
>> Into an if statement
>> We can make that the condition of an if
statement, If choice is
includes candidate, Do something.
In this case actually we care If choices
does not include our candidate, right?
Yeah, two.
>> Can we just use exclamation mark?
>> We can use the exclamation mark,
exactly.
So if choices dot includes
candidate is false, so
if choices does not include the candidate,
then in that case,
we can move up our choices
push into this if block, so
that we make sure, my goodness, syntax.
Okay, so
that we make sure that we are only pushing
if choices does not include the potential
candidate that we just got.
We got random element.